So, this is not a trick question, how do
engineering managers spend their time?
>> Depends on the company and the role.
>> Yeah, but
there's a real answer to this one.
This isn't a trick.
Yeah.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> [LAUGH]
>> Megan, the chat must have been seen
into the future here,
because they responded a few minutes ago.
As an engineering manager, I spend 10%
of my time each week with one-on-ones,
65% of my time in meetings,
and the rest in Slack.
>> Wow, that's really specific.
Props to them.
>> What do you say about that?
>> [LAUGH] The answer is meetings.
>> [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] There's a real, sorry,
I wasn't trying to trick you all.
Yeah, the breakdown of meetings is pretty
important, we're gonna talk about that.
Cuz when you look at a manager,
you're like, what do they do all the time?
It's just meetings.
Their calendar is full.
And one-on ones are meetings too,
there's different type of meeting.
And you're like, that's probably
the thing that turned me off the most
from being an engineering manager.
It's like, I don't wanna sit in meetings,
I'm not being productive there.
So one thing I had to do was change my
mindset around, what am I trying to do in
meetings, what's the purpose of them,
it's not just filling time.
I tell you,
some people think managers like meetings.
We don't.
I'd rather not be in a meeting.
I would rather be writing a doc or
talking to my team, or
focusing on, I wanna be creative too.
I wanna write, hey, here's a proposal for
doing this, or hey,
maybe I wanna dive into
the code a little bit.
But oftentimes I don't
cuz I'm in meetings.
So, I won't say I dislike meetings,
I understand their purpose, but
would I rather not be in meetings
to have a day that's empty?
Yeah, I would.
Just a common misconception there.
[LAUGH] And when you get into meetings,
the fascinating world of engineering
management, there's a lot of
different types of meetings.
You got your one on ones,
so that's person to person.
You got project meetings,
you got planning and strategy meetings.
You got all-hands.
I think they're generally
called all hands, but
if your entire organization comes
together, whether it's company or glide or
domain wide, it's called an all-hands,
it might be called something different.
You have team meetings.
You should be having team meetings.
If you don't have team meetings,
you're doing something wrong.
You should be meeting
regularly as a group.
Social events, that's a meeting too.
You probably don't think of it, but it's a
meeting, cuz you're meeting other people.
Team retrospectives, looking back on
what went well, what didn't go well,
that's a meeting.
And staff meetings, talking to the other
peer managers in your organization,
talking to your manager in a big group.
Those are called staff meetings,
generally.
They could be called
something else as well.
Are there other meeting types you
can think of that I didn't include
in the list?
There's gotta be one.
Yeah, right.
>> It could be standups, right?
You might be attending
standups that your team has.
>> Standups, yeah, that's a meeting too.
>> Does team bonding count?
Like, happy hour.
>> Put it under social events,
but, yeah, that counts.
Yeah.
>> Interviews.
>> I also think on that one,
is an interview a meeting?
>> It's on the calendar.
>> Yeah, I'm gonna count it, yeah.
>> [LAUGH]
>> You get the call?
>> Yeah, good call out.
>> Ad hoc, huddles.
>> Yeah, huddles, that's a meeting.
>> Quick chat.
>> Yeah.
>> Just a quick chat.
>> Quick chat, person to person.
>> Leadership meetings.
>> Yeah.
So now the, strategy meetings, what once
was like a blank canvas of meetings,
now we see there's actually
a lot of varieties in there.
And your inputs, outputs, what's expected
changes from meeting to meeting.
So we talked about types of meetings,
but the purpose of meetings and
the types are often different.
Sometimes you're just planning.
You're not actually trying
to make a decision,
you're just trying to get some ideas.
Or you're trying to say, like,
hey, what are the next steps?
Sometimes there's brainstorming.
You have no ideas and you need some.
You gotta start from somewhere, every
project idea has to start from somewhere.
Brainstorming idea meeting is
sometimes just the purpose.
You're not trying to achieve
anything there other than ideation.
Sometimes there's alignments.
That means, a decision must be made and
here's a group of stakeholders to make
a decision,
what technology are you gonna do?
What's the next step in this project?
Sometimes that's what a meeting's for.
Morale and culture,
those are team events, often.
Sometimes they're not, sometimes they're
performance meetings and a one-on-one.
Sometimes the meeting's just for
sharing information, and
all-hands is a good example of someone
talking to a large group of people,
you're just sharing information there.
Probably not a lot of back and forth.
Sometimes you're just there
to receive information.
Again, in all-hands,
I'm just there listening.
I'm probably not contributing to what the
CEO has to say in this particular moment.
Someday, someday I'll
have my time to shine.
But I like to think of meetings and
breaking them out in types and
purpose because it changes my approach and
what's expected.
Sometimes, if I'm running the meeting,
I need to be prepared.
I can't show up unprepared if it's
a status meeting for the project managers.
I need to know what
the status of the project is.
Is it on track?
Is it delayed?
What are the reasons?
What are the next steps?
I have to be prepared going in.
Have you ever been in a meeting where
someone's clearly not prepared?
Yeah, it's weird, it's so uncomfortable,
you're like, why are you wasting our time?
You're like, there's literally money
we're spending by being here and
not doing other things.
And that's something you
have to think about, is,
are you wasting people's
time in a meeting?
Is your time being wasted?
There's a famous rule we have at Netflix,
which is, no agenda, no attender.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I believe in,
if it's a big group meeting and say,
a lot of other managers are involved,
and there's no agenda, I'm like,
hey, I'll either email the person like,
hey, what are we talking about?
Or I just won't show up,
cuz, why waste my time.
If you couldn't put in the effort
to at least make an agenda for
a meeting, then I don't need
to put in the effort back.
And it sounds cold but
that's just how we operate,
we wanna make sure we're
making the best use of time.
I like meetings with a bunch
of leaders and directors,
cuz if you think of time and
money in salaries and all that,
you translate that,
some meetings are expensive.
Thousands of dollars you're spending.
And if you're not making progress
towards something, what are you doing?
I don't know,
maybe I'm cynical about meetings.
Maybe I take too tight of a lens on them.